So, let's start with some friends.
Let's say we have our friend, Mary,
our friend, Jane, and our friend, Will.
And we want to tag the sentence: Mary saw Will.
And to figure this out,
we have some exciting data in the form of some sentences,
which are "Mary saw Jane.",
and "Jane so Will."
And these are tagged as follows.
Mary, Jane, and Will are tagged as nouns,
and saw is tagged as a verb.
On our first algorithm it's going to be very simple.
We're just going to tag each word with the most common part of speech.
So, we make a little table where the rows are
the words and the columns are the parts of speech,
and we write down how often each one appears in the existing data.
For the first row, Mary appears once as a noun,
and zero times as a verb.
Then saw appears zero times as a noun,
and two as a verb, et cetera.
And then when we want to tag our new sentence, Mary saw Will,
then we go word by word and pick
the most common part of speech associated with that word.
So, that's the largest number in the corresponding row.
We start with Mary which in the table gets associated to noun,
thanks to this one over here.
Then saw gets associated with verb and Will gets associated with noun, and we're done.